---
layout: post
title: "Hello World"
---
## Welcome

Hello and welcome to my blog! I'm by no means an expert in any field and I just created this space to share my journey and insights in the field of CyberSecurity. Whether you're an expert yourself, a student or just curious... I hope you'll find something valuable here.

Allow me to start with a small introduction of who I am and what my career path looks like from the start over 20 years ago until today as a CyberSecurity Professional.

## Background

My name is Niels Kwakman and I started my career in IT right after school. For all Dutch readers, after finishing MAVO I did a 2 year MBO course in Informatica. Yes, I don't hold any bachelor or master degree and didn't go to uni.

I started with setting up workspaces for our employees, installing OS's like MS-DOS (yes i'm that old ;-) and yes that's also what was used at the time) and Windows NT, installing a variety of hardware like VLB crypt adapters, x25 and SDLC adapters and repairing hardware like printers and CRT monitors (that's where I learned soldering).
This was later on expanded to installing and configuring rack based servers (including the racks itself) and network switches (this is where i learned the concept and importance of proper cable management).

After 7 years I made a move to an IT Helpdesk function. I enjoyed the direct contact with our employees and it helped me to grow personally. What did help as well is that I knew almost every single one of them because I had set up their workspaces in the previous years.

I stayed in that position for about 6 years when there was a position available at an operational team monitoring our whole infra from physical to virtual servers and appliances to network devices and websites. My main focus changed from monitoring to developing and implementing an automated patch-window for Windows servers and an automated fail-over / fail-back plan / schedule from one datacenter to another that was to be used in case of emergency / disaster.

Late 2017 I was offered a chance to join a newly set up SOC and eventually started there early 2018. I remember the first interview as I had no background in CyberSecurity (I only started HackTheBox literally a week prior to the interview) and beside some questions about OS's, Networking, Internet, Email etc... I failed the others (I had no idea what a SIEM was). What did help was my experience in the previous team and having extended knowledge of our IT infrastructure which still does help me as of today.

The first couple of years I mainly focused on "handling the queue", analyzing incidents and alerts, phishing emails, learned about log (source) management and eventually moved to detection engineering which is still my primary field and responsibility today. As my secondary field of interest being malware analysis I took the FOR610 course and finished it half way 2023.


## Environment

Early 2024 I started building my own lab which consists of a Security Onion instance (log collector, file analysis, pcap imports, network monitoring), a pfSense firewall for DHCP, network segmentation, obvious firewalling, controlling Internet access for the "victim" network segment and providing a span port from the "victim" network to the SecurityOnion instance and having the traffic being analyzed by Suricata (IDS mode) and ZEEK to provide all necessary network metadata, a Kali linux instance to perform any tests towards the "victim" VM and a Windows 10 Flare VM as the actual victim. All logs (Windows event logs, PowerShell logs, Sysmon etc...) are sent to SecurityOnion by an Elastic agent.

## Next blog post

My next blog post topic is "setting up the lab" mentioned above and will follow shortly.

I'm active on HackTheBox and I'm open to participate in CTF challenges together with others.

Please feel free to reach out!

